+++ 
draft = false
date = 2020-01-19T21:05:54Z
title = "Hello Hugo and Cloud Run!"
description = "Moving my blog from Medium to hugo and Google Cloud Run"
slug = "hello" 
tags = ['meta', 'gcp', 'cloud run', 'cloud build', 'medium']
categories = []
externalLink = ""
series = []
+++

I've been meaning to get off Medium for a while so decided to self-host these posts. Things have changed quite a lot since the last time I did this, which is probably approaching twenty years ago.

The page you're seeing is coming from `nginx` image hosted on Google Cloud Run, which contains a site generated by Hugo. Google Cloud Build is used to build this image and deploy it to Google Cloud Run.

## Workflow

Add markdown files to the posts directory and edit with any editor or in a browser through GitHub. Manage changes with git branches, collaborate through PRs. Content as code. Couldn't be much simpler.

## Deploy steps

When a change is pushed to master, the site is rebuilt and deployed by Google Cloud Build.
- Clone git submodules (hugo theme, in this case)
- Run `hugo` via a custom Cloud Build builder (basically just a [Docker image](https://github.com/AlexJReid/blog/blob/master/_hugo-cloudbuilder) containing the `hugo` binary. The build process assumes that this image has already been built and is available.)
- Copy the built site to an `nginx` image and push it to a registry
- Deploy the serving image to Cloud Run

See [cloudbuild.yaml](https://github.com/AlexJReid/blog/blob/master/cloudbuild.yaml) to see how it all fits together.

One thing I'd like to improve is the removal of old builds I'll never want to run again. Cloud Run keeps these to allow for easy rollback, among other things. As this is just my blog, I don't really have a particular SLA to uphold, but it's good to know it's there.

## Why Cloud Run?

I really liked using Cloud Run for another project and it seemed a simple way of getting off Medium. It has nice monitoring and dead simple support for custom domains and certificate provisioning. This makes a refreshing change.